Don’t make me look too neat,
you’ll ruin my image.
I spend my entire day messing up
my hair and you’re making it straight.
You’ve gotta give him that Bernie edge.
That’s right.
You look beautiful.
Thank you.
Thank you, Senator.
Bernie, you look great too.
Thank you.
Let me get your
thoughts on something.
You’re a Jewish Democratic Socialist
whose campaign manager
is a Pakistani Muslim
dude named Faiz [Shakir].
Think of that image.
When that image
goes to the White House,
people are going to lose their minds.
I don’t know that people
are going to lose their minds.
I mean we don’t hire people because
they’re Pakistani or because they come–
We have some wonderful
woman who’s from Saudi Arabia,
a number Jewish
people on our campaign.
We have a lot of
African Americans, we have Latinos.
We hire people because
they can do the job–
because they are smart, they are
hardworking and they can do their job.
And I don’t give a damn where they came
from or what their religion is.
Now, maybe that sounds
radical, but that is what I–
No, that is very radical because I get it.
You’re Jewish, but you’re pretty Muslim-ish.
A lot of the stuff that you've talked about–
I’ve been called many things
in my life, never “Muslim-ish.”
Muslim-ish.
“Muslim-ish.”
This is living room stuff.
And Faiz, when you leave–
Faiz will break it down
for you. You know what it is.
The stuff that you talk about is stuff that I’ve
been hearing in my living room for a long time.
You want to demilitarize the United States.
You don’t want a hawkish, aggressive
U.S. military around the world–
Well, demilitarize is a strong word.
We need a strong military, but I want to make
sure that we resolve international conflicts–
Sure but–
Through other than military means—
But you don’t want a drone
strike every brown country–
Yes, correct.
–into the Stone Ages.
Yes.
And you speak at Muslim conferences?
Yes. Why would I not speak
at Muslim conferences?
Too many Muslims.
I don’t speak at Muslim conferences!
I speak at as many conferences–
I speak at Jewish conferences,
I speak at Muslim conferences,
I speak at Latino conferences,
speak at African American conferences.
You know what?
We are a big country with a whole lot of
folks from different backgrounds.
I’m running for president
and I think if I’m invited,
I should speak to as many
of those groups as I can.
But you’re trying to have a political career
in America. This is a PR nightmare.
I don’t think so.
So you have more faith in Islam than I do.
I’m being serious! Like–
It’s not a question of faith in Islam,
it’s faith in the American people.
- Okay.
- And I think–
And do you think the American people
are ready for this much Big Brown Energy?
I think the American people are disgusted with
Donald Trump’s effort to divide us up
based on our religion,
based on the color of our skin,
based on our sexual orientation,
based on where we were born.
And what our campaign is about
is bringing people together.
Jewish and Muslim and Christian and every
other religion, black and white and Latino.
Asian American, Native American–
bringing people together around
an agenda that works for all of us.
And by the way, around an
agenda that includes a vigorous,
vigorous effort to combat the
global crisis of climate change.
It doesn’t matter what color your
skin is, where you were born.
You know what? We’re not going to have much of a
planet left unless we transform our energy system
away from fossil fuel.
You have spoken out against a relatively hawkish and
aggressive U.S. military presence around the world.
Under what conditions would you
consider using military force overseas?
Well, look, we have the
strongest defense in the world.
We have the strongest military in the world.
It may be necessary to use it. I am not a pacifist.
I wish we lived in a world where we
didn’t have to use weapons and the military.
But what I will tell you as somebody who
voted not only against the war in Iraq,
and helped lead the opposition to that war,
somebody who voted
against the first Gulf War,
somebody who, when he was a kid,
marched against the war in Vietnam.
War is the last resort. And I know it is very easy
for politicians to get– to stand up and
give great speeches, and you know–
and then we send our working class kids over to
some country, in Iraq or Afghanistan to get killed.
But we’ve got to do everything
we possibly can to prevent war.
And, you know, the goal should be diplomacy.
The goal should be working with
people and doing everything we can
to prevent the bloodshed
that wars bring about.
Would you like to lean more
on Congress in order to...
Yes. One of the problems that we’ve had in recent
years is that Congress has basically
abdicated its responsibility.
You know that the Constitution
mandates that it is Congress,
not the president, who goes
to war. But for many years–
Yes.
under Democratic and Republican administrations,
Congress has abdicated that responsibility.
And I’m very proud by the way, to
have led the effort in the Senate to–
to, for the first time, have the War Powers Act
actually passed in terms of the war in Yemen.
And we voted in the Senate and House
voted as well for the first time–45 years–
to tell the president of the United States that
he did not have the authority to get involved
in supporting Saudi Arabia
in a very, very terrible war.
Unfortunately, Trump vetoed that legislation, but it
was the first successful use of the War Powers Act.
Great. Thank you.
I think we just got to just shift
into a simple yes or no question.
Alright.
Israel.
Yeah.
Yeah. Israel has every right in the world
to exist in peace and security.
But the United States has got
to develop a foreign policy,
which understands that we
need to treat the Palestinian people
with the respect and
dignity that they deserve.
Our job is to bring Israelis and Palestinians together
and it is very difficult to create a path toward peace.
- You’ve spoken out against the Israeli settlements.
- Yes.
Would you withhold U.S. military aid if
Israel did not change its tune in regards to–
Let me be very clear as
somebody who is Jewish,
who when I was young,
spent a number of months in Israel,
on a kibbutz as a matter of fact.
And that is–we give over $3 billion a year to Israel.
And in recent years,
under the Netanyahu especially,
we have seen this government
become an extremely right wing government,
I believe, a racist government.
And I think the taxpayers
of this country have a right
to say to the Israeli government,
“Look, we support you,
we want to help you, but you know what? You
have to treat your neighbors with respect and dignity.”
And we have a strong carrot, and that is the
kinds of billions of dollars we’re giving to Israel.
This is in regards to the aid.
So let’s say hypothetically,
Bibi’s [Netenyahu] nightmare comes true.
You become president and
Iran wages war on Israel.
Do you send aid, even if they don’t change
their tune in regards to the settlements?
We do everything we can to prevent that.
I have a great deal of–Look, you’ve got a region of the
world, which has been in turmoil for a very long time.
All I can tell you is that the United States has got
to have a foreign policy which is even handed.
What does that mean?
It means that we work to do everything we can to
bring the Israelis and the Palestinians together.
It means that I am personally sick and tired
of the conflict between Iran and Saudi Arabia.
Now we have many, many years ago, for I
suspect oil reasons, sided with Saudi Arabia.
They are wonderful people,
but you know what?
In all due respect, their government
is a government of demagogues, of murderers,
people who are horrific and
trying to repress democracy,
treat women as third
class citizens. They’re not great–
You’re saying this. I’m not saying this. I got in
enough trouble in regards to this issue.
Yeah I’m saying it.
Senator Sanders, you were talking about canceling
$1.6 trillion of student loan debt, which is great–
but...
what about the people who just paid off their
student loans? What are you going to offer them?
Well, we’re going to
offer them Medicare for All.
We're going to offer them the
opportunity to send their kids to college—
public colleges and
universities– tuition free.
We’re going to offer them good
paying jobs, et cetera, et cetera.
But right now, you’ve got a generation
of young people– they got a college education,
and you should not be
punishing this generation,
which is struggling so much right now,
with outrageous levels of student debt.
I’m talking to people every day who
graduated college– $50,000, $100,000...
graduate school add a few zeros there.
I mean $3–$400,000 in debt–
Oh absolutely. Yeah.
All right? These people can’t get
married and have kids. They can’t buy a home.
They can’t buy a car.
They’re paying... Oh, I talked to
a woman in New Hampshire.
She’s not only still paying
off her own student debt,
she’s paying off her
daughter’s student debt.
Alright. That’s fairly insane.
So if we could give $1 trillion in tax breaks to the
1% large corporations– which is what Trump did–
if we could bail out the
crooks on Wall Street
to the tune of trillions of dollars with
zero interest loans, you know what?
We can cancel all
student debt in this country.
And that would be a
tremendous boom for the economy.
Instead of paying off, you know,
$200 a month student debt,
people go out, be able to buy a car,
be able to buy their own home.
Alright, you know 50 years ago, many public
colleges and universities were virtually tuition free.
Did you know that?
- University of California–
- Tuition free?
Virtually tuition free. That’s right.
So people were able to go to college
without coming out deeply in debt.
It’s a reasonably new phenomenon
that you have to come out of
college with $50,000 in debt and
I think we should address that right away.
Sure.
Your debt plan would also give
a lot of money to rich families.
- That’s kind of off brand for you. Why not set a cap–
- No, it does not.
- But why not just set a cap on who gets that?
- Because I’ll tell you why.
Because I believe in universal programming,
and that means right now,
- you’ve got public schools in New York City right?
- Yeah.
In America?
Rich kids go to the public schools, but we say
public schools are available to everybody.
You got social security, you know the
richest people in this country
get their social security check.
Doesn’t mean much to them, but they do.
Everybody’s in. Everybody
contributes. Everybody gets.
What we do in our
programming is tell those
very, very rich people that they are going
to have to pay a hell of a lot more in taxes.
In fact, we have proposed
a pretty significant wealth tax.
So we believe in progressive taxation,
but we believe in universal programs.
If some wealthy person–
I don’t know how many billionaires
send their kids to
public colleges and universities.
They choose to do that, that’s okay.
Trust me, they’re going to be paying a hell of a lot
more in taxes to make that happen for everybody.
Now, in order to do this–
this is pretty drastic stuff.
You’re going to have to go through
the Republicans in Senate.
Well, my hope is there will not be
Republican leadership in the Senate.
We’re going to do our best to make
sure that they are not continuing to be in power.
I mean, we know this and I have Indian
parents, best sometimes isn’t enough, right?
I went to UC Davis. I wanted to go to
UC Berkeley. My best was UC Davis.
So just like I was an Aggie,
Republicans may remain in Senate.
And if that happens, you’re
going to have to negotiate with them.
I have some pitches.
You’re giving me more advice?
I’ve given you four jobs already.
Of course.
And now you need a–all right,
let me hear what you’ve got.
- I’m going hard in the paint. Definitely, yeah...
- Alright.
There’s going to be a hardworking
person in my administration.
The first idea is would you consider expanding
Medicare for All to cover oil pipelines?
See, I thought we were going
to do away with oil pipelines.
I’m not going to make you
Secretary of Energy, that’s clear.
This is the Mitch Pitch. You got to give
him something that he’s interested in.
Health care for oil pipelines.
- Sure. Or here’s another–
- So that when they spill–
break down and they spill– they
get the care they need, is that your point?
Correct.
Alright, got it.
Or how about this? For every student who
gets their debt forgiven, you kill a white rhino.
I hadn’t thought of that either?
Where do you come up with these ideas?
I was thinking the white
rhino or the regular rhino.
Either way you got to give them
something in exchange to get–
Problem with that is,
we’re running out of white rhinos.
That’s why I said regular rhino–
- You have the option.
- Regular rhino–
Probably running out on them as well.
If nothing else works, you could always release
Mitch McConnell like Dobby in Harry Potter
by giving him this sock.
And this sock will...
- Well, when you give a gift to a house-elf–
- Yeah.
They’re free.
Oh.
So you just walk over to
Mitch and say, “This is for you.”
All right, I’ll see Mitch soon.
I will make sure that he gets this.
Free Mitch.
Free Mitch, okay.